# Quality Inspection using AI - Computer Vision with Deep Learning
 Inspecting products to ensure quality is a critical process where they are evaluated for acceptance or rejection. Usually, this involves a human operator examining the product to determine its status, but there are many factors that impact the inspection process, resulting in an 80% accuracy rate. Plus, manual inspection is expensive and time-consuming. Fortunately, computer vision (CV) algorithms can automate parts of the inspection process, but there are still challenges that need to be addressed. This repository describes AI-based approaches using Deep Learning (DL), making a benchmark of multiple Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models and performance comparison specifically for inspection. Feel free to contribute.
## Objective
To test the automation quality inspection using computer vision machine learning models
This repository will benchmark machine learning models (Xception, InceptionResnetV2, MobileNet, MobileNetV2) 
## Dataset

The dataset used is from from Pilot Technocast, a companyn located in Gujarat, India, that specializes in manufacturing casting products. The dataset, consisting of 7348 top-view images of submersible pump impellers made with stainless steel through a shell molding casting process, was made publicly available by Ravirajsinh Dabhi. The images were resized to 300 x 300 pixels and were collected using a Canon EOS 1300D camera kit under stable lighting. The data is pre-labeled into two categories, namely 'def_front' and 'ok_front,' representing defective and acceptable products, respectively. Link to dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ravirajsinh45/real-life-industrial-dataset-of-casting-product
